Hypervisor or virtual machine monitor(VMM) is a program used to run and manage one or more virtual machines on a computer. 

It allows one host computer to support multiple guest VMs by virtually sharing its resources, such as memory and processing.

There are two main hypervisor types, referred to as “Type 1” (or “bare metal”) and “Type 2” (or “hosted”). A type 1 hypervisor acts like a lightweight operating system and runs directly on the host’s hardware, while a type 2 hypervisor runs as a software layer on an operating system, like other computer programs.

The most commonly deployed type of hypervisor is the type 1 or bare-metal hypervisor, where virtualization software is installed directly on the hardware where the operating system is normally installed. Because bare-metal hypervisors are isolated from the attack-prone operating system, they are extremely secure. In addition, they generally perform better and more efficiently than hosted hypervisors. For these reasons, most enterprise companies choose bare-metal hypervisors for data center computing needs.

Hardware acceleration technology can create and manage virtual resources faster by boosting processing speed for both bare-metal and hosted hypervisors. A type of hardware accelerator known as a virtual Dedicated Graphics Accelerator (vDGA) takes care of sending and refreshing high-end 3-D graphics. This frees up the main system for other tasks and greatly increases the display speed of images. For industries such as oil and gas exploration, where there is a need to quickly visualize complex data, this technology can be very useful.

Containers and hypervisors are both involved in making applications faster and more efficient, but they achieve this in different ways. 

Hypervisors:

1. Allow an operating system to run independently from the underlying hardware through the use of virtual machines.
2. Share virtual computing, storage and memory resources.
3. Can run multiple operating systems on top of one server (bare-metal hypervisor) or installed on top of one standard operating system and isolated from it (hosted hypervisor).

Containers: 

1. Allow applications to run independently of an operating system. 
2. Can run on any operating system—all they need is a container engine to run. 
3. Are extremely portable since in a container, an application has everything it needs to run. 

Resources:
https://www.vmware.com/topics/glossary/content/hypervisor.html

